Elvis day today
and welcome back a recent innovation for
those who dread spending time in the
dentist chair there's a new process for
creating crowns here to tell us more is
dr. Walter Palmer from River Bluff
dental dr Parmalee Palmer's good morning
tell us about the technological advances
we're talking about syrack is the
process exactly what is it well syriac
stands for ceramic restoration and the
interesting process rob is this can be
done right before your eyes immediately
while the patient is watching and it's
really fascinating because we kind of
live in a hurry up world right and
people really don't want to visit the
dentist twice and this restoration can
be made immediately and it can be done
used for cosmetic dentistry broken teeth
stained teeth and in fact we can show
some before after pictures that's
amazing if you look carefully a more
traditional or old type of crown is on
the left and a silver filling right this
was restored recently and you can see
you cannot tell the difference it's
amazing I mean I've had a couple crowns
put in and usually anyone out there
watching knows the old way is you go
when you get a cast made you have a
temporary put in then about a month
later you finally go back so there's
several steps this new process with see
wreck you come in once and the computer
takes a picture of it and then I believe
we have a picture the computer takes a
picture there it is that while you wait
it makes a crown and you're out of there
the same day one visit when it's wrecked
what you're watching right now is a
CEREC technician Janelle designing teeth
that I've prepared for this show and
this takes about 12 minutes to make
their she's making the tooth in
designing it and it the neat thing about
this restoration is there's no metal in
it well it's very translucent and that's
what gives it the natural look of a
tooth yeah because you look at the
traditional crowns and there's always
that metal
you can always see it always stays unit
sure especially the visible teeth maybe
the front teeth that have those it you
know maybe you don't want that very
unsightly the cerec can be used for any
tooth and we used to use this a lot for
cosmetic dentistry this is the actual
milling machine as a cad cam where the
tooth is being processed and this takes
about 12 minutes it's incredible the
technology is just astounding how it
just keeps in improving your here so how
long has this been around the steric
three which is the latest version has
been around about seven years I'm going
to thank my friends at patterson dental
right for offering this technology to
minnesota and they were i was one of the
first ones in minnesota to have a steric
three and it's really changed in
dentistry and how people perceive
dentistry this is definitely in my 20
years of cosmetic dentistry the most
innovative process that I've seen okay
from the time you walk in the door to
the time you leave how long does it
generally take for the bus an hour
that's incredible right now it would be
a good candidate to have this done
anybody's a good candidate like I said
any tooth can be restored with Sarek
fillings inlays crowns and cosmetic
dentistry can be done with this there at
restoration and any tooth any tooth and
how many visits does it take is it's
just a single or is there several
several follow-ups that that go with
this usually one visit that's incredible
and the before and after and you could
see a lot of people can probably relate
to this it just looks perfect it does
it's beautiful yeah it really is fun to
restore teeth and have them really look
natural and beautiful it's really a yeah
let's talk a little bit more for you as
a professional when this technology
comes along it must mean like Christmas
wanted you to be able to excited it's
really innovation and it's very
technological it's changed things but
all for the better and what is the the
material made out of that the sea rock
the syriac is is it this a is it a
porcelain it suppressed ampris porcelain
which is a cosmetic porcelain and it's
actually stronger because it's not
heated or baked like the traditional
crown and an oven so there's no
imperfections or bubbles and we don't
see breakage from it at all right let's
talk more about the durability of it
then is it is it a lifetime well it's
the more permanent thing we do in
dentistry right because I know and then
a regular crown what's the lifespan of a
regular crown oh maybe 20 years okay
yeah and this and this is comparable or
we'll even even outlive a regular
exactly right well that's fantastic yeah
the before and after is just it's
stunning to see that how beautiful that
is and this procedure takes an hour
people come in I just can't get over
that how quickly it's done it's it's
really fascinating wow thank you so much
for joining is a welcome great job great
job call today to get five percent
savings on your seawrack restoration by
mentioning showcase Minnesota River
Bluff dental is located at 10851 rhode
island avenue south in bloomington for
more information or to make an
appointment call 9 5 to 8 845 361 or log
onto river bluff dental